Karan Poddar
karanpodar@gmail.com
+91 9176204117
github.com/karanpodar
birth date - 27 May 1998 (Age - 26)
Gender - Male

Summary

Innovative Machine Learning Engineer with 5.5+ years of experience in banking and insurance sectors. Skilled in
developing AI-driven solutions that significantly improve operational efficiency and customer experience. Expertise in
NLP, predictive modeling, and full-stack development. Proven track record of reducing costs, optimizing processes, and
delivering high-impact projects ahead of schedule. Adept at leveraging cloud technologies and mainframe systems to
create robust, scalable solutions.


Technical Skills
 Domain: Insurance (Property), Banking (Unsecured Lending– Credit Cards & Loans)
 Languages: Python, COBOL, JCL, CICS, Rexx, Gherkin
 Frameworks: FastAPI, Django, StreamLit, Karate, Selenium, Groovy
 Developer Tools: Git, Jenkins, Amazon Web Service (AWS), VS Code, PyCharm, IntelliJ, Openshift, Jira, Rally,
 Confluence, Git, BitBucket
 Libraries: pandas, NumPy, Matplotlib, scikit-learn, Tensorflow, Pytorch
 Mainframe Tools: Endevor, VSAM, TSO, IBM File-manager, CA-File Manager, Excalibur, IBM File-Aid, ISPF, MQ
 Manager, DB2, CICS Debugger
 Machine Learning: GenAI (Generative AI), Predictive Modelling, Prompt Engineering, Sentiment Analysis,
 Regression Algorithms, Classification Algorithms, Natural Language Processing (NLP), Feature Engineering, Data
 Visualization, Exploratory Data Analysis (EDA), RAG, Large Language Models (LLM), Agentic AI
 Cloud Services: Elastic Container Service, CloudWatch, S3, Boto3, Bedrock, Sagemaker


WORK EXPERIENCE
Barclays (Machine Learning Engineer)	May 2022 – Present
Designed and developed a Contextual Search Engine leveraging NLP, Text Similarity, and Semantic Search, improving search efficiency by 30%.
Developed a Generative AI-based Complaints Workflow Management System utilizing NLU, text summarization, and multiclass text classification, reducing complaint resolution time by 40%.
Created a Loan Repayment Prognosticator proof of concept using a supervised learning algorithm to prevent bank from disbursing loans to default-prone customers or refactoring affordability with high repayment risks.
Leveraged Python and Machine Learning to implement optimization techniques, reducing model over-fitting by 20% and increasing model accuracy and practicality.
Developed an Internal Full Stack Web Application with Python functions and Streamlit to compare Deployment configurations, saving around 0.2 FTE per resource.
Developed a Jenkins CI/CD Pipeline to generate Bit bucket commit and PR reports, to have a track of commits and Pull Requests based on different criteria’s.
Built a Process automation using CI/CD pipeline to trigger a reminder mail for all the Jira issues open over a period of time to maintain Jira hygiene 

Testing projects worked upon in Barclays as a API Automation Tester
Accessibility & Vulnerability Markers –Adapt and improve the current Eligibility Markers, and add a new Accessibility Marker (Differently-abled Customer) for Letter Delivery.
Ogone Replacement – Add new Oracle DB call to existing Billing Enquiry API and remediate the existing flow.
CRD4 Score Replacement – Replacing the existing customer scoring system with a new enhanced PD4M & Capital PD Scoring system, as a part of regulatory & compliance change.
OMS Remediation – Remediation of existing offer management system to fix the flaws and optimize performance issues.
Produced over 1065 repeatable automated test cases, saving almost two FTEs in total.

LTI (Mainframe Developer)	May 2019 – May 2022
• Exhibited an unwavering record of success in fixing 21 Production Known Errors (PKEs), which resulted in a
 notable drop in the volume of customer complaints
• Delivered the California Fire-line Score fifteen days ahead of schedule. This was a significant regulatory project,
 and any problems or delays would have resulted in fines for the company amounting to millions of dollars
• Worked on migrating the Property Insurance policies from Quantum Homes to Quantum Homes 2.0, which
 was the most competitive offering in the market increasing the number of newly issued policies by over 43%
• Designed and developed a brand-new system known as Reason For Change (RFC) codes, which was developed to
 send a change code to customers anytime they modify their policy, saving in millions for the client

Education

Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech.) Engineering - Information Technology
Easwari Engineering College (Affiliated to Anna University) July 2015 - April 2019 
CGPA - 6.7

Higher Secondary Certificate
The Velammal International School (Chennai) July 2013 - April 2015
Percentage - 95

Secondary School Certificate
Divine Child High School (Surat) April 2013
CGPA - 8.4

Achievements
 • Won Code-a-thon 2.0 (Dec ‘23) at Barclays for pitching ideas that would save approx. 3M GBP to the bank
 • Received ‘Most Valuable Player’ Award for the month of Sep ’21
 • Received ‘Spot Award for Quality Assurance’ for the month of Aug ’23
 • Had a own quick commerce startup called Paradox in 2018
